Implement Flyway migrations (#246)
metalbear-co/docs: docs/sharing-the-cluster/db-branching/migrations.md

---
title: Schema Migrations
description: Automatically run schema migrations against a mirrord DB branch
tags:
  - alpha
  - team
  - enterprise
---

> This page covers the `migrations` field of a DB branch config - how mirrord runs your schema migrations against the branch automatically. It applies to MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MSSQL. For general concepts and the full list of config fields, see the [DB Branching overview](../db-branching.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A DB branch includes the source database's schema as of when it was cloned - or starts with no schema at all, depending on `copy.mode`. Either way, it won't include migrations that exist only in your working tree and haven't been applied to the source database yet.

The `migrations` field closes that gap: mirrord runs your schema migrations against the branch automatically when it's created, so the branch comes up with the schema your code expects.

This page covers the `migrations` field of a DB branch config for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MSSQL. For general concepts and the full list of config fields, see the [DB Branching overview](../db-branching.md).
```

> The `migrations` field runs your schema migrations against the branch automatically, so the branch comes up with the schema your code expects. It requires `name` to be set.

Reviewer: move the 'name' requirement to the bottom where you explain fields.

```json
{
  "feature": {
    "db_branches": [
      {
        "type": "pg",
        "version": "17",
        "name": "users-database-name",
        "connection": { "url": "DATABASE_URL" },
        "migrations": {
          "flavor": "flyway",
          "path": "./migrations"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> `flavor` selects the migration tool. `path` is a local directory of migration files, resolved relative to your working directory.

Reviewer: | Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `flavor` | Selects the migration tool. Currently `flyway`. |
| `path` | Local directory of migration files, resolved relative to your working directory. |
| `image` | *(Optional)* Override the migration runner image. Defaults to `flyway/flyway:12` for `flavor: flyway`. |

---
Both db-branching.md ("Key Fields") and connection.md switch to a table once there's more than one field to explain. This page explains `flavor`/`path` inline and `image` in separate prose further down — a table matches the parent page's convention and scales better as more `flavor` values are added.

Migrations run while the branch is created, before it becomes ready. If they fail, the session aborts, so your app is never started against a half-migrated branch.

> A migration that conflicts with one already applied to the branch fails your session only—the branch itself remains usable.

Reviewer: with one already applied == one migration? its not clear.

```suggestion
A migration that conflicts with one already applied to the branch fails your session only, the branch itself remains usable.
```
